---
layout: default
title: "Call for Participation"
menu_show: true
permalink: /:collection/cfp
---
{% for coll in site.collections %}{% if coll.label == page.collection %}{% assign edition = coll %}{% endif %}{% endfor %} {%- assign year = page.collection -%}

2021 is the 50th anniversary of ACM SIGMETRICS, while 2022 is the 50th anniversary of IFIP TC 7 (which includes WG 7.3 Computer System Modeling). In half a century, computing systems have changed drastically, and the growing complexity of systems, services and their relative context makes it more urgent and critical to model and analyze systems performance and behavior. On the other hand, the teaching of performance modeling has faced cutbacks, as budgets are squeezed and student interests shift. This is a good time to take stock of performance modeling as a discipline and this Workshop aims to discuss how our community should respond to this challenge.

For example, how should course content in performance analysis be updated for undergraduate and graduate students? Should we reach out to the industry, to import case studies, as well as educate engineers and managers? Can we demonstrate the relevance of performance analysis to other disciplines, and adopt pedagogical approaches from currently popular courses?

We issue here a call for academics, engineers and students to participate in this discussion at the workshop. We have invited 5 speakers who will provide keynotes that touch on the above issues. The success of the workshop, however, depends on a productive dialog and deliberation among participants, to summarize the state of our discipline, and suggest a course of action for growing performance modeling.
