---
layout: default
title: "Call for Papers"
menu_show: true
permalink: /:collection/cfp
---

The ACM SIGSIM Conference on Principles of Advanced Discrete Simulation (ACM SIGSIM PADS) continues its reputation for high quality papers. SIGSIM PADS is the flagship conference of ACM's Special Interest Group on Simulation and Modeling (SIGSIM).

The ACM SIGSIM PADS conference focuses on cutting-edge research that lies at the intersection of Computer Science and Modeling and Simulation (M&S). High quality papers are solicited in all aspects of M&S, including (but not restricted to) the following areas:

-   Advanced modeling techniques, including reuse of models, new modeling languages, agent-based M&S, and spatially explicit M&S.
-   Algorithms and methods for parallel or distributed simulation, including synchronization, scheduling, memory management, load balancing, and scalability issues.
-   New simulation algorithms and techniques including hybrid simulation approaches, adaptive algorithms, approximations, GPU, FPGA and hybrid architecture acceleration.
-   Modeling and simulation for big data and big data analytics.
-   Simulation infrastructure and security issues for large scale distributed and/or cloud-based modeling and simulation.
-   Model and simulation persistence and recovery in the presence of hardware failures.
-   Integration of simulation with other IT systems, methods, and developments including simulation based decision-making, visual analytics, intelligent support in M&S, and simulation in cloud computing environments.
-   Mechanisms for efficient design of experiments, including dynamic verification and validation of models, and automatic simulation model generation and initialization.
-   M&S applied to manage and/or optimize operational systems and methodological challenges arising from these applications including online simulation, symbiotic simulation, dynamic data-driven application systems, real-time and embedded simulation, and emulation of real systems.
-   Tools and techniques for interoperability and composability of simulations including emerging standards and service-oriented approaches.
-   Case studies considering the application of new or advanced computational methods to applications of contemporary interest.

We welcome full-length submissions of 10 pages + 1 page for reference, either as regular submissions or as position papers that encourage interesting and challenging debates (preferentially in the form of a panel).

## Important Dates

{% include_relative _important_dates.md %}

## Short Papers

The ACM SIGSIM PADS organizing committee is soliciting short papers (4 to 6 pages max) to be presented at the conference. Short papers should describe late-breaking research results that are interesting to the community, or work-in-progress that show timely and innovative ideas, or (short) position papers that encourage interesting and challenging debate. More specific details on the the short paper are as follows:

### Late-breaking research results that are interesting to the community:

These papers should give a brief background to give context to the research results, clearly present the methodology, give the results and then discuss why these results are significant and interesting. Due to the length of the paper a full literature review is inappropriate -- however there should be enough information to help the reader understand the problem and context of the results. It would be expected that the results should be independently reproducible.

### Work in progress that show timely and innovative ideas:

The focus of these papers is on the innovation. Authors should either (i) clearly identify timeliness / innovation through a literature review that outlines the gap in knowledge, or (ii) present early results from their prototypes. Due to the length of the paper, authors would not be expected to produce both a thorough review and detailed results from mature implementations. Rather, there should be some indication of how the innovation will be evaluated.

### Position papers that encourage interesting and challenging debate:

The aim of a position paper is to capture a timely and interesting subject, present the author's position and then a clear debate that presents arguments for and against. The key aspect of this paper is that it will be of interest to the ACM SIGSIM PADS. We particularly encourage presentations that will involve a panel such that different viewpoints can be expressed.

All short papers will be fully reviewed and will be published in the conference proceedings and included in the ACM Digital Library. At least one author is required to attend the conference and present their work in a time slot of 10 to 15 minutes.


## Ph.D. Colloquium and Poster Session

The Ph.D. Colloquium and Poster Session at the ACM SIGSIM PADS conference is an exciting opportunity for Ph.D. students to present their work to the research community. Each participating student is required to:

1.  submit an Abstract with no more than 500 words,
2.  prepare and bring a poster to the conference, and
3.  provide a short presentation at the Ph.D. Colloquium and participate in the poster session at the conference.

ACM SIGSIM will provide a complementary one-year membership to ACM SIGSIM to participants at the Ph.D. colloquium. ACM SIGSIM will also offer a limited number of $1,000 travel grants to colloquium participants.

## Paper Presentation Requirement

Publication of an accepted paper in the ACM SIGSIM PADS Proceedings in the ACM Digital Library requires the presentation of the paper at the conference. If an accepted paper is not presented at the conference, that paper will be removed from the Proceedings in the ACM Digital Library. For further information, see the ACM Policy on Withdrawal of a Work from the ACM Digital Library at <https://www.acm.org/publications/policies/withdrawal_work>

## Paper Submission

[Click here to see the instructions for paper preparation and submission.](https://www.acm-sigsim-pads.org/authorsInfo.htm#preparation)
