---
layout: default
title: "Call for Participation"
menu_show: true
permalink: /:collection/cfp
---
{% for coll in site.collections %}{% if coll.label == page.collection %}{% assign edition = coll %}{% endif %}{% endfor %} {%- assign year = page.collection -%}

The Third International Workshop on Teaching Performance and Analysis of Computer Systems (T e a P A C S 2024) aims to explore further the issues raised in T e a P A C S 2021 and in T e a P A C S 2023: the importance of performance analysis, ignorance of related concepts among industry engineers and systems researchers, students' weakness in mathematical preparation, the need to accommodate their current interests and learning habits, etc.

In particular, T e a P A C S 2024 will have two discussion sessions open to all participants on the following issues:

## (D1) Performance Education in a Data-Driven World

How can we integrate black box approaches to give the competencies needed to analyse system behaviour?
How can we preserve the essential knowledge in performance modeling and evaluation?
How do we bridge the gap between tractable theory and practical problems?

## (D2) Motivating Students

How do we cater to a mix of students' backgrounds (engineering, business, etc.)?
What tools (solvers? simulators? polling?) can we use to engage student interest and attention?
What exercises (e.g. lab work on load balancing and content delivery networks)
can we design for students who focus on functionality, not performance?

We call academics, engineers and students to participate in T e a P A C S 2024. We have invited speakers who will provide keynotes on the above issues. However, the workshop’s success depends on a productive dialogue and deliberation among all participants to review the state of our discipline and suggest a course of action for growing performance modeling and analysis.
